okay so AMD just launched some new
laptop CPUs the rise in 4000 series and
they are very impressive like
legitimately very powerful CPUs for
laptops there are however a strange
number of articles that are like this is
the end of Intel Intel's dead like it's
so not the case so I reached out to both
my contacts at Intel and AMD just to
hear both sides of the story and to see
what both companies think of each other
in terms of the industry and where the
the laptop industry sits right now and I
thought it would make a video for people
that are interested in buying a laptop
in 2020 because that's not as clear-cut
as it may seem it's not like dumped
Intel everyone should be buying AMD
laptops that's really not the case okay
but first of all these new AMD chips are
the real deal for certain users for
people that can actually take advantage
of multi-core processing these chips are
great so for some workflows that really
makes so much more sense to purchase one
of these new AMD laptops then what Intel
has to offer right now now in the past
regardless of how much like marketing
AMD threw into their laptop stuff they
were never good and you can tell from
the manufacturers side like they never
put AMD chips in the past into their
premium laptops like we just never did
it any time they used an AMD chip in one
of their laptops it was usually some
kind of like plastic more value oriented
device but this all changed a few days
ago because now we're seeing some very
premium devices being made with these
Rison CPUs now the reason for this the
reason why this chip is so special and
so good is because it's the world's
first seven nanometer processor and the
key here is power efficiency they are
able to push up a crazy amount of
performance per watt and it's given
these new chips some very serious legs
and it's also provided some competition
finally in the laptop CPU space now
there are a couple things you need to be
aware of first these chips are really
good for
- you know I'd say one thing really
content creation that's seriously the
best by far the best feature about these
new AMD chips it doesn't really matter
which application you're using because
eight cores is almost always going to be
better than four cores or six cores when
it comes to content creation now the
other thing they drew attention to was
gaming but we're talking about gaming
with the integrated graphics on these
new Rison chips and we're seeing decent
performance like way better than what
Intel offers in their current integrated
graphics solutions but keep in mind that
these are still integrated graphics
these are not representative of actual
gaming laptops so the real strength of
these new AMD chips really just lies in
their ability to process in multi-core
applications like actual workflows now
another thing I was interested in was
battery life so I played with the
engineering samples I've had just to
kind of see what they could do and I've
spoken to some of the guys from AMD just
to learn more about this so this is my
gut feeling on it the seven nanometer
chips from AMD are so much better than
what they've had in the past because in
the past
AMD's laptop chips were really poor with
idle State battery consumption they are
much improved but Intel stuff is still
better and the biggest thing comes from
just years of optimization Intel has
spent so much time working with this
architecture and working with laptop
manufacturers to be really good at
battery consumption and the companies
out there that are making laptops are
designed to last as long as possible are
going to stick with Intel chips but the
thing is the trade-off for most people
seems to be worth it like you just get
so much better performance with eight
cores in a laptop than four for Apple
users if you're someone who's always
been interested in AMD based MacBook Pro
it's it's not gonna happen anytime soon
apple's software is just way too finely
tuned for intel's hardware that it's
yeah it's it sounds really cool on paper
but no okay i'm gonna wrap this up with
two kind of bigger picture thoughts here
the first thing is pricing AMD in the
past has always been cheaper when it
comes to their laptop offerings but
because they know they have something
good here the pricing from what i've
seen of all the devices that have
like MSRP pop up it's not cheap not that
it's expensive but because they know
they have something that's comparable if
not better than what Intel has they are
pricing it at kind of like what you'd
expect for a high-performance premium
device and the second thing is Intel's
response to all of this has been Tiger
Lake and Tiger Lake has one clear
advantage to me it's the GPU performance
like we've been told that the Tiger Lake
CPUs are supposed to have a
significantly better GPU than what even
the Rison 4000 chips have so I'm looking
forward to it here's my take on this
whole like laptop industry right now in
the year 2020 we finally have like two
real competitors companies making
compelling devices or compelling
components for laptops I think it's cool
if you've been holding off on a laptop
upgrade I think this is the year to do
it there's just a lot of cool stuff on
the table if you're a content creator
the eight core stuff from AMD just makes
a lot of sense if you're a gamer or if
you're looking for a more productivity
focused device or really like a student
that just wants a really long battery
life in their laptop I don't know if AMD
is the answer yet okay hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs if you liked
it subs if you loved it see you guys
next time
[Music]